Three two one go let's start the training.
So we're going to start by introducing the Bache index check training class that we're going to say
equal to 100.
And that's because we will check the training class every 100 badges so you'll see how we'll use it
later.
Then I'm going to keep it as viable because the second variable we will introduce is going to read a
batch index check validation lots and that the validation nurse who will check it halfway and at the
end of an epoch.
And therefore since the middle of an epoch corresponds to half of the number of batches.
I'm going to get this half of the number of batches by taking all our questions.
That is the total number of our questions.
So Len training questions that I'm going to divide by the batch size to get the total number of batches
and then I'm going to divide by 2 to get half of this number of batches and then I just need to use
a minus one just around the down then I'm going to introduce the tural training last error and I'm going
to initialize it to zero and that will be used to compute the sum of the training losses on 100 batches
because we chose to check the last every 100 batches.
All right.
And then I'm going to copy this because the next variable that I'm going to introduce is first not a
total less error but a list of less errors and not at the training but the validation that's going to
be the least of the validation plus errors.
And why do we have to make a list that's because we're going to use the early stopping technique which
consists of checking if we managed to reach a loss that is below the minimum of all the losses we got
and all the losses we get we're going to put them in that list.
All right.
And I'm going to initialize this as an analyst then.
Speaking of early stopping I'm introducing early being and I'm going to introduce to early stopping
Voivode the first one is going to be early stopping to check that it's going to be zero and that is
going to correspond to the number of checks each time there is no improvement of the validation.
So each time we don't reduce the validation less early stopping check is going to be incremented by
1 and once it reaches a certain number which is going to be our next variable here.
Well we will stop everything.
We will stop the training.
And that number from which we're going to stop we're going to call it early.
STOP BEING stop and that is going to be equal to 1000.
So 1000 is a bit high but that's just because I want to make the training last until the last book that
is 100.
But if you want to really apply early stopping I would recommend to choose rather 100.
All right and then we're going to get our check point.
That's just to save the weights which we will be able to load whenever we want to chat with our trained
chat.
But I'm going to put them in quotes and I'm going to call them shots but underscore weights that S.K.
Peachi.
All right.
That's going to be the file containing the weights.
Then we're going to run our session by taking our session object and then using the run method.
And inside this run method we have to initialize all the global variables by taking first the tenths
of the libraries and then taking the global variables initialiser function like that.
OK so far.
Perfect.
Next step the next step is to start the big fall up this huge fall that it's going to do all the training
so for.
It's going to be of course a full loop over the book.
So for Epoque in range and we're going to start from one up to the total number of epochs we chose and
the hyper parameters.
And that was given by the variables ebox only because the upper bound in a range is excluded.
We want to add a plus one here.
Right and now let's go inside this for loop and there goes already a second for you because of course
in each epoch we have to loop over all the batches because I remind that an epoch is completed when
all the batches go back and forth to double record a new one that works in our second segment.
So four and now we're going to use the split in two batches.
Function that we made in the previous code section to get the batch indexes.
That is the index of the batch.
And then for each of these vetches Well we're going to get the Pettitt questions in the batch and the
parrot answers in the batch.
And therefore my variables are going to be here.
First batch index.
And then in a couple my battered questions in the batch and my bad answers in the batch and all of them
we're going to get it.
Thanks to first the enumerate function because they split into batches function returns several elements.
And now that's when we get our split into batches function that remember it takes three arguments.
First are training questions the inputs then our training answers the targets and then the batch size
right.
And that will give us what we want.
That is deliverables perfect than color and next step the next step is to get the starting sign.
That is we're going to measure the time of the training of each batch and therefore we're going to get
the starting time here.
Thanks to first time librarian then the time function.
All right.
And then we'll get unending time and it will do the difference between the end time and starting time
to get the time at the bench then next step is to get the training last air of this specific batch we're
dealing with right now and to get this batch trending less error.
We're going to run our session with our optimizer and the last area that we'll put into a list and the
inputs to targets to learn to read the sequence length and to keep probability Well basically everything
that we need to get the training class error as we defined in the previous code section to get the training
that are on this batch.
And since this run method by the session object is going to return two elements.
And since actually the best training last Erricker response to the second element we have to start with
an underscore here to say that we don't want the first elements returns but only the second one which
is the one we want and that is batch training last hour.
All right.
And that's where our session comes into play from this session we're going to take the run method and
first we need to get in a list our optimizer with grades and clipping applied.
And of course the loss.
And then in the dictionary you will get first the inputs which are of course are bad questions in batch
then we're going to get our targets which are of course or padded answers and batch then the learning
rates are.
And remember the hyper parameters learning rates then the next one is the sequence length and then we
can get it by taking the answers and batch the best we're dealing with right now and then taking the
shape of index one of these balances and that that gives us the sequence length.
We already covered that in one of the quotations before then last one the keep trub parameter that remember
when the hyper parameters we took keep the score up but Billy T which is equal to 50 percent.
Great.
So then now that we've just got our batched training plus error.
Well we're going to add it to the total training less error because then we want to get the total training
less error on 100 batches.
And then we'll do an average and therefore I'm going to do now I'm going to take this total training
error that I'm copying pasting in here and adding to it the batched training last error.
So I'm copying this and pasting that here.
All right.
Perfect.
Then next.
So the next step is simple it's just to get the ending time.
Which we can get just by measuring the time again with the time function by the time library.
The next step is to get the training time of this batch which is well let's call it batch time which
is equal to the end in time minus the starting time.
All right so that will give us the time of the training of this batched this specific batch we're dealing
with right now in the loop.
The second for loop and now we are going to compute the average of the training less errors on 100 batches
and we will print that error to keep track of the training errors.
All right so to get these 100 batches we're going to do that with an IF condition that will check if
the Bache index is divisible by.
Well the Bache index check stringless that is 100.
So if it is divisible by 100 which we can check by seeing if the rest of the division of batch indexed
by batch index check training is equal to zero then that means that we would reach 100 batches or 200
batches or 300.
That's basically every 100 batches.
And so if that's the case we're going to print the book the batch the average training last error on
100 batches and the training time on these same 100 batches.
So let's do this let's make this print quickly.
So we have to put double quotes first.
First we're going to print the e-book and that's going to be with three figures over the total number
of Epoque that we have to put in brackets I'm going to give you some recommendation on the syntax I'm
using.
Don't worry about this then we're going to print the batch we reached the batched index and since we
have a lot of batches we're going to use Well this time four figures over again.
The total number of batches.
Then the training last error of course and this time we're going to have some decimals in the lower
figures so let's put six figures with three decimal and that's a float.
And also we can add the training time on one hundred batches to be specific.
And that will be an integer.
So Carl in the end we can add then seconds to specify that it's measured in seconds.
All right and then we need to add all our variables in format.
And so first we wanted the puck reached then we need to print the total number of books which we get
thanks to a viable box with an s.
Then we need the Bachche index.
Then the total number of batches which we can get by dividing the total number of training questions
by the batch size.
Then finally what's most interesting the average of the training errors on these 100 batches and that
we can get by dividing the total training last error by the Bache index check.
Training last which is equal to 100.
And finally the training time of these 100 batches which we can get by taking first in function to make
sure we get an integer number of seconds.
So int batch time times.
Well this same batch index check training class which is equal to 100.
And that gives us the training time of 100 vetches perfect.
We're done with the printing.
Now next step the next step is well first to make sure we're still in the if that's the case.
Perfect.
And to re-initialize the tool training last error to zero because that was just to compute the total
trailing loss error of 100 batches and we were done dealing with these 100 batches.
So we're going to have to do the same thing for the next 100 batches.
All right then the next step is first get out of this if condition and do a new IF condition to this
time take care of the validation set.
So we're going to do the same.
We're going to compute an average of some validation plus errors.
But on the validation set and so the first thing we're going to do isn't if condition because remember
we want to check the validation error halfway.
And at the end of an epoch and therefore to do this we're going to check if our batch index that we
have reached so far is divisible by this time the Bache index check validation less which is equal to
how much of the total number of batches and therefore and pasting them here and I'm checking if this
is equal to zero.
But then we don't want to include the first batch.
So I'm excluding it by checking if the batched index is larger than zero.
All right so if that's the case where are we going to do.
Well first we're going to initialize the total validation last error to zero exactly as we did before
with the total trending last error.
Then we're going to get a starting time because we're going to measure the time of each batch again.
So talling time that we get things to our time library and then the time function then what we're going
to do is a new for loop.
Still in this condition there is actually going to be the same for loop as what we did here.
But of course replacing all the training by validation.
So let's copy this second for loop.
That's quite dangerous to do it but we'll manage.
Let's copy it and let's paste it here.
Just below starting time.
All right.
And now let's make the required changes.
So first of all we're going to give a different name to that Blueboy will batched index to specify that
this time it's going to be the index of a batch in the validation set.
So I'm specifying here badge index validation.
Then still we're going to get our Pettitt questions in the batch pat answers in the batch and we're
going to get things to split into batches function.
But that this time is going to take as arguments not the training questions and the training answers
but the validation questions.
And of course the validation answers to validation questions validation answers and the same batch size
of course.
And let's go back then since we already introduce here the training time.
We don't need that.
I'm removing this line.
And then a very important thing to change here.
When we run our session here.
Well since we're not doing some training here with the validation because the validation consists of
just testing your model on new observations which won't be used for the training well for that reason
we don't need the optimizer.
The optimizer is only used to compute the gradient and therefore only used for the training.
So I'm removing this and also these square brackets here we don't need them.
We just need the last error.
And then since we removed the optimizer Well this run method is going to return just one argument which
will be the Bachche not training but validation less error and therefore I'm removing this underscore
because it only returns one argument.
Great then we need to align things here for the target then the learning rate then the sequence length
and keep probability but there does that ring the alarm.
Well the keep probability is only used for the training because that's used to activate the neuron with
a certain probability which we chose to be 50 percent.
But here we're dealing with the validation set and therefore the probability is always 1 because the
neurons always have to be present.
Deactivating them with a probability of 50 percent is just to improve the training.
And therefore instead of keep probability here I'm going to put one right.
And that said that was the only replacement we had to make here.
All right then we add the batch not training but validation last error to our total not training less
error but validation less error.
And then we get the ending time but it has to go outside of the loop because we started the time before
the loop and therefore same for the batch time which is equal to the anti-man is the starting time perfect.
We are done with the second loop and therefore we are ready to compute the average of these validation
losses and that's exactly what we're going to do now and to compute it we're going to introduce first
a new variable that I'm going to call average validation last error that is going to be equal of course
to the total validation less error divided by the number of matches in the validation set of our questions.
And therefore I'm taking here the length of the validation questions divided by the batch size and that
gives me exactly the number of batches in the validation set.
All right.
And therefore I get the average validation error which is exactly what I want to print right now at
this stage of the loop and therefore we're going to do a quick print again we're going to print in quotes
the validation last error going to scroll down a bit validation last error there will be a float that
we have to put in brackets with let's say six figures and three decimals and I have to specify a float.
Then we're going to print also the batch validation time and that would be an integer Caliente.
And then we can specify it seconds again and then and the format function we need to enter these variables.
So the first one is what we just computed here that is the average validation last error.
That's what we'll get in these brackets here.
So that's the first one.
And the second one is going to be simply the batch time that I make sure to be an int an integer are
perfect.
Next step the next step is to apply early stopping but we'll do a small break here and we'll do that
in the next to toil until then Id on be.